---
title: "Dynkin system"
---

# Dynkin System

## Definition

A family $\mathcal{D} \subseteq \mathcal{P}\left. (X) \right.$ is a *Dynkin system* if

1.  $X \in \mathcal{D}$

2.  $D \in \mathcal{D} \Longrightarrow D^{c} \in \mathcal{D}$

3.  $\left. \left( D_{n} \right) \right._{n \in \mathbb{N}} \subseteq \mathcal{D}\mathrm{\text{ pairwise disjoint }} \Longrightarrow \bigsqcup(n \in \mathbb{N})D_{n} \in \mathcal{D}$

where $\sqcup$ represents the union of [disjoint](/notes/areas/mathematics/real_analysis/definitions/disjoint/) sets.

We have that $\varnothing \in \mathcal{D}$ and that finite [disjoint](/notes/areas/mathematics/real_analysis/definitions/disjoint/) unions are again in $\mathcal{D}:D,E \in \mathcal{D} \Longrightarrow D \cap E = \varnothing \Longrightarrow D \sqcup E \in D$. Of course, every $\sigma$-algebra is a Dynkin system, but the converse is, in general, wrong (See [Measures_Integrals_and_Martingales](/notes/areas/mathematics/measure_theory/books/measures_integrals_and_martingales/) -- Exercises 5.1 and 5.2).

## Theorems

### Generators

Let $\mathcal{G} \subseteq \mathcal{P}\left. (X) \right.$. Then there is a smallest Dynkin system $\delta\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right.$ containing $\mathcal{G}$. $\delta\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right.$ is called the Dynkin system generated by $\mathcal{G}$. Moreover, $G \subseteq \delta\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right. \subseteq \sigma\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right.$.

Proof: The proof that $\delta\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right.$ exists parallels the proof of Theorem 3.4(ii). As in the case of $\sigma$-algebras, $\delta\left. \left( \mathcal{D} \right) \right. = \mathcal{D}$ if $\mathcal{D}$ is a Dynkin system (by minimality) and so $\delta\left. \left( \sigma\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right. \right) \right. = \sigma\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right.$. Hence $\mathcal{G} \subseteq \sigma\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right.$ implies that $\delta\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right. \subseteq \delta\left. \left( \sigma\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right. \right) \right. = \sigma\left. \left( \mathcal{G} \right) \right.$.
